Thoughts on the ASLR^Cache (AnC) Attack
=======================================

The [AnC](https://www.vusec.net/projects/anc/) whitepaper, publicized
heavily on 15 Feb 2017, provides a very interesting look into the MMU.
It utilizes a timing attack on the MMU's walk of the Page Tables in
order to derandomize valid memory addresses, thus defeating ASLR.
They've provided sample C code and have shown proof-of-concept videos
of a javascript-based attack.

This is the first paper that has fully presented successful attacks
against ASLR. Other works that provide timing attacks have since been
theoretical and didn't even provide proofs-of-concept.

It's important to keep in mind, though, that this attack is really
only applicable to applications that allow attackers to introduce
arbitrary code, even if the code is interpreted script. The paper
gives two browsers, Chrome and Firefox, as prime examples. Even then,
if the scripted language does not provide performance measurement
APIs, then the attack might be mitigated.

For applications that do not interpret arbitrary code, ASLR remains
strong. As discussed in my
[article](https://github.com/lattera/articles/blob/master/infosec/Exploit%20Mitigations/ASLR/2016-10-19_btb/article.md)
about the Branch Target Buffer whitepaper, ASLR is designed to protect
against remote attacks, not local attacks. For purely remote attacks
where the attacker cannot simply introduce code and has no way to
inspect runtime environment, ASLR is still incredibly useful and
secure.

To sum up, the AnC attack is a very interesting attack that
successfully defeats ASLR in web browsers. ASLR remains strong for
purely remote attacks with applications that do not execute arbitrary
code.
